Hello and welcome. As you probably know, deep learning has already transformed 
traditional internet businesses like web search and advertising. 
But deep learning is also enabling 
brand new products and businesses and ways of helping people to be created. 
Everything ranging from better healthcare, 
where deep learning is getting really good at reading 
X-ray images to delivering personalized education, 
to precision agriculture, to even self-driving cars and many others. 
If you want to learn the tools of deep learning and 
be able to apply them to build these amazing things, 
I want to help you get there. 
When you finish the sequence of courses on Coursera, 
called the specialization, you will be able to put 
deep learning onto your resume with confidence. 
Over the next decade, 
I think all of us have an opportunity to build an amazing world, amazing society, 
that is AI-powered, 
and I hope that you will play a big role in the creation of this AI-powered society. 
So that, let's get started. 
I think that AI is the new electricity. 
Starting about 100 years ago, 
the electrification of our society transformed every major industry, 
everything ranging from transportation, manufacturing, 
to healthcare, to communications and many more. 
And I think that today, we see a surprisingly clear path 
for AI to bring about an equally big transformation. 
And of course, the part of AI that is rising 
rapidly and driving a lot of these developments, is deep learning. 
So today, deep learning is one of the most 
highly sought after skills in the technology world. 
And through this course, and a few courses after this one, 
I want to help you to gain and master those skills. 
So here is what you will learn in this sequence of 
courses also called a specialization on Coursera. 
In the first course, 
you will learn about the foundations of neural networks, 
you will learn about neural networks and deep learning. 
This video that you are watching is part of 
this first course, which last four weeks in total. 
And each of the five courses in the specialization will be about two to four weeks, 
with most of them actually shorter than four weeks. 
But in this first course, 
you will learn how to build a neural network, including 
a deep neural network, and how to train it on data. 
And at the end of this course, 
you will be able to build a deep neural network to recognize, guess what? 
Cats. For some reason, 
there is a cat meme running around in deep learning. 
And so, following tradition in this first course, 
we will build a cat recognizer. 
Then in the second course, 
you will learn about the practical aspects of deep learning. 
So you will learn, now that you have built a neurak network, 
how to actually get it to perform well. 
So you learn about hyperparameter tuning, regularization, 
how to diagnose bias, and variants, and advance 
optimization algorithms, like momentum, armrest, prop, and the ad authorization algorithm. 
Sometimes it seems like there is a lot of tuning, 
even some black magic in how you build a new network. 
So the second course, which is just three weeks, 
will demystify some of that black magic. 
In the third course, which is just two weeks, 
you will learn how to structure your machine learning project. 
It turns out that the strategy for building 
a machine learning system has changed in the era of deep learning. 
So for example, the way you split your data into train, 
development or dev, also called holdout cross-validation sets, and test sets, 
has changed in the era of deep learning. 
So what are the new best practices for doing that? 
And whether if your training set and your test come from different distributions, 
that is happening a lot more in the era of deep learning. 
So, how do you deal with that? 
And if you have heard of end-to-end deep learning, 
you will also learn more about that in this third course, 
and see when you should use it and maybe when you shouldn't. 
The material in this third course is relatively unique. 
I am going to share of you a lot of the hard-won lessons that I have learned, 
building and shipping quite a lot of deep learning products. 
As far as I know, 
this is largely material that is not taught in 
most universities that have deep learning courses. 
But I think it will really help you to get your deep learning systems to work well. 
In the next course, 
we will then talk about convolutional neural networks, often abbreviated CNNs. 
Convolutional networks, or convolutional neural networks, are often applied to images. 
So you will learn how to build these models in course four. 
Finally, in course five, 
you will learn sequence models and how to apply 
them to natural language processing and other problems. 
So sequence models includes models like 
recurrent neural networks, abbreviated RNNs, and LSTM models, 
stands for a long short term memory models. 
You will learn what these terms mean in course five and be able to 
apply them to natural language processing problems. 
So you will learn these models in course five and be able to apply them to sequence data. 
So for example, natural language is just a sequence of words, 
and you will also understand how these models can be applied to speech recognition, 
or to music generation, and other problems. 
So through these courses, 
you will learn the tools of deep learning, 
you will be able to apply them to build amazing things, 
and I hope many of you through this will also be able to advance your career. 
So with that, let's get started. 
Please go on to the next video where we will talk about 
deep learning applied to supervised learning.

From <https://www.coursera.org/learn/neural-networks-deep-learning/lecture/Cuf2f/welcome> 

The term, Deep Learning, refers to training Neural Networks, 
sometimes very large Neural Networks. 
So what exactly is a Neural Network? 
In this video, let's try to give you some of the basic intuitions.
Play video starting at ::12 and follow transcript0:12
Let's start with a Housing Price Prediction example. 
Let's say you have a data set with six houses, so you know the size of the houses 
in square feet or square meters and you know the price of the house and you want 
to fit a function to predict the price of a house as a function of its size. 
So if you are familiar with linear regression you might say, well let's 
put a straight line to this data, so, and we get a straight line like that. 
But to be put fancier, you might say, well we know that prices 
can never be negative, right? 
So instead of the straight line fit, which eventually will become negative, 
let's bend the curve here. 
So it just ends up zero here. 
So this thick blue line ends up being your function for 
predicting the price of the house as a function of its size. 
Where it is zero here and then there is a straight line fit to the right.
Play video starting at :1:4 and follow transcript1:04
So you can think of this function that you have just fit to housing prices 
as a very simple neural network. 
It is almost the simplest possible neural network. 
Let me draw it here.
Play video starting at :1:17 and follow transcript1:17
We have as the input to the neural network the size of a house which we call x. 
It goes into this node, this little circle and 
then it outputs the price which we call y. 
So this little circle, which is a single neuron in a neural network, 
implements this function that we drew on the left.
Play video starting at :1:43 and follow transcript1:43
And all that the neuron does is it inputs the size, computes this linear function, 
takes a max of zero, and then outputs the estimated price.
Play video starting at :1:53 and follow transcript1:53
And by the way in the neural network literature, you will see this function a lot. 
This function which goes to zero sometimes and 
then it'll take of as a straight line. 
This function is called a ReLU function which stands for 
rectified linear units. 
So R-E-L-U. And 
rectify just means taking a max of 0 which is why you get a function shape like this.
Play video starting at :2:23 and follow transcript2:23
You don't need to worry about ReLU units for 
now but it's just something you will see again later in this course. 
So if this is a single neuron, neural network, 
really a tiny little neural network, a larger neural network 
is then formed by taking many of the single neurons and stacking them together. 
So, if you think of this neuron that's being like a single Lego brick, you then 
get a bigger neural network by stacking together many of these Lego bricks. 
Let's see an example.
Play video starting at :2:57 and follow transcript2:57
Let’s say that instead of predicting the price of a house just from the size, 
you now have other features. 
You know other things about the house, such as the number of bedrooms, 
which we would write as "#bedrooms", and you might think that one of the things 
that really affects the price of a house is family size, right? 
So can this house fit your family of three, or family of four, or 
family of five? 
And it's really based on the size in square feet or square meters, and 
the number of bedrooms that determines whether or 
not a house can fit your family's family size. 
And then maybe you know the zip codes, 
in different countries it's called a postal code of a house. 
And the zip code maybe as a feature tells you, walkability? 
So is this neighborhood highly walkable? 
Think just walks to the grocery store? 
Walk to school? 
Do you need to drive? 
And some people prefer highly walkable neighborhoods. 
And then the zip code as well as the wealth maybe tells you, right. 
Certainly in the United States but some other countries as well. 
Tells you how good is the school quality. 
So each of these little circles I'm drawing, can be one of those ReLU, 
rectified linear units or some other slightly non linear function. 
So that based on the size and number of bedrooms, 
you can estimate the family size, their zip code, based on walkability, 
based on zip code and wealth can estimate the school quality. 
And then finally you might think that well the way people decide how much they're 
willing to pay for a house, is they look at the things that really matter to them. 
In this case family size, walkability, and school quality and 
that helps you predict the price.
Play video starting at :4:46 and follow transcript4:46
So in the example x is all of these four inputs.
Play video starting at :4:53 and follow transcript4:53
And y is the price you're trying to predict.
Play video starting at :4:57 and follow transcript4:57
And so by stacking together a few of the single neurons or the simple predictors 
we have from the previous slide, we now have a slightly larger neural network. 
How you manage neural network is that when you implement it, 
you need to give it just the input x and 
the output y for a number of examples in your training set and 
all these things in the middle, they will figure out by itself.
Play video starting at :5:25 and follow transcript5:25
So what you actually implement is this. 
Where, here, you have a neural network with four inputs. 
So the input features might be the size, number of bedrooms, 
the zip code or postal code, and the wealth of the neighborhood. 
And so given these input features, 
the job of the neural network will be to predict the price y. 
And notice also that each of these circles, these are called hidden units in 
the neural network, that each of them takes its inputs all four input features. 
So for example, rather than saying this first node represents family size and 
family size depends only on the features X1 and X2. 
Instead, we're going to say, well neural network, 
you decide whatever you want this node to be. 
And we'll give you all four input features to compute whatever you want. 
So we say that layer that this is input layer and 
this layer in the middle of the neural network are densely connected. 
Because every input feature is connected to every one 
of these circles in the middle. 
And the remarkable thing about neural networks is that, given enough data about 
x and y, given enough training examples with both x and y, neural networks 
are remarkably good at figuring out functions that accurately map from x to y.
Play video starting at :6:48 and follow transcript6:48
So, that's a basic neural network. 
It turns out that as you build out your own neural networks, 
you'll probably find them to be most useful, most powerful 
in supervised learning incentives, meaning that you're trying to take an input x and 
map it to some output y, like we just saw in the housing price prediction example. 
In the next video let's go over some more examples of supervised learning and 
some examples of where you might find your networks to be incredibly helpful for 
your applications as well.

From <https://www.coursera.org/learn/neural-networks-deep-learning/lecture/eAE2G/what-is-a-neural-network> 

There's been a lot of hype about neural networks. 
And perhaps some of that hype is justified, given how well they're working. 
But it turns out that so 
far, almost all the economic value created by neural networks has been through 
one type of machine learning, called supervised learning. 
Let's see what that means, and let's go over some examples. 
In supervised learning, you have some input x, and 
you want to learn a function mapping to some output y. 
So for example, just now we saw the housing price prediction application where 
you input some features of a home and try to output or estimate the price y. 
Here are some other examples that neural networks have been applied to very 
effectively. 
Possibly the single most lucrative application of deep learning today is 
online advertising, maybe not the most inspiring, but certainly very lucrative, 
in which, by inputting information about an ad to the website it's thinking 
of showing you, and some information about the user, neural networks have 
gotten very good at predicting whether or not you click on an ad. 
And by showing you and 
showing users the ads that you are most likely to click on, this has been 
an incredibly lucrative application of neural networks at multiple companies. 
Because the ability to show you ads that you're more likely to 
click on has a direct impact on the bottom 
line of some of the very large online advertising companies.
Play video starting at :1:30 and follow transcript1:30
Computer vision has also made huge strides in the last several years, 
mostly due to deep learning. 
So you might input an image and want to output an index, 
say from 1 to 1,000 trying to tell you if this picture, 
it might be any one of, say a 1000 different images. 
So, you might us that for photo tagging. 
I think the recent progress in speech recognition has also been very exciting, 
where you can now input an audio clip to a neural network, and 
have it output a text transcript. 
Machine translation has also made huge strides thanks to deep learning where now 
you can have a neural network input an English sentence and directly output say, 
a Chinese sentence. 
And in autonomous driving, you might input an image, say a picture of what's in 
front of your car as well as some information from a radar, and 
based on that, maybe a neural network can be trained to tell you the position 
of the other cars on the road. 
So this becomes a key component in autonomous driving systems. 
So a lot of the value creation through neural networks has been through cleverly 
selecting what should be x and what should be y for 
your particular problem, and then fitting this supervised learning component into 
often a bigger system such as an autonomous vehicle. 
It turns out that slightly different types of neural networks are useful for 
different applications. 
For example, in the real estate application that we saw in the previous 
video, we use a universally standard neural network architecture, right? 
Maybe for real estate and online advertising might be a relatively 
standard neural network, like the one that we saw.
Play video starting at :3:13 and follow transcript3:13
For image applications we'll often use convolutional neural networks, 
often abbreviated CNN.
Play video starting at :3:21 and follow transcript3:21
And for sequence data. 
So for example, audio has a temporal component, right? 
Audio is played out over time, so audio is most naturally represented 
as a one-dimensional time series or as a one-dimensional temporal sequence. 
And so for sequence data, you often use an RNN, 
a recurrent neural network. 
Language, English and Chinese, the alphabets or the words come one at a time. 
So language is also most naturally represented as sequence data. 
And so more complex versions of RNNs are often used for these applications. 
And then, for more complex applications, like autonomous driving, where you have an 
image, that might suggest more of a CNN, convolution neural network, structure and 
radar info which is something quite different. 
You might end up with a more custom, or 
some more complex, hybrid neural network architecture.
Play video starting at :4:20 and follow transcript4:20
So, just to be a bit more concrete about what are the standard CNN and 
RNN architectures. 
So in the literature you might have seen pictures like this. 
So that's a standard neural net. 
You might have seen pictures like this. 
Well this is an example of a Convolutional Neural Network, and we'll see in 
a later course exactly what this picture means and how can you implement this. 
But convolutional networks are often used for image data. 
And you might also have seen pictures like this. 
And you'll learn how to implement this in a later course. 
Recurrent neural networks are very good for 
this type of one-dimensional sequence data that has maybe a temporal component. 
You might also have heard about applications of machine learning 
to both Structured Data and Unstructured Data. 
Here's what the terms mean. 
Structured Data means basically databases of data.
Play video starting at :5:19 and follow transcript5:19
So, for example, in housing price prediction, you might have a database or 
the column that tells you the size and the number of bedrooms. 
So, this is structured data, or in predicting whether or not a user will 
click on an ad, you might have information about the user, such as the age, 
some information about the ad, and then labels why that you're trying to predict. 
So that's structured data, meaning that each of the features, 
such as size of the house, the number of bedrooms, or 
the age of a user, has a very well defined meaning. 
In contrast, unstructured data refers to things like audio, raw audio, 
or images where you might want to recognize what's in the image or text. 
Here the features might be the pixel values in an image or 
the individual words in a piece of text. 
Historically, it has been much harder for 
computers to make sense of unstructured data compared to structured data. 
And in fact the human race has evolved to be very good at understanding 
audio cues as well as images. 
And then text was a more recent invention, but 
people are just really good at interpreting unstructured data. 
And so one of the most exciting things about the rise of neural networks is that, 
thanks to deep learning, thanks to neural networks, computers are now much better 
at interpreting unstructured data as well compared to just a few years ago. 
And this creates opportunities for many new exciting applications that use 
speech recognition, image recognition, natural language processing on text,
Play video starting at :6:56 and follow transcript6:56
much more than was possible even just two or three years ago. 
I think because people have a natural empathy to understanding unstructured 
data, you might hear about neural network successes on unstructured data 
more in the media because it's just cool when the neural network recognizes a cat. 
We all like that, and we all know what that means. 
But it turns out that a lot of short term economic value that neural 
networks are creating has also been on structured data, 
such as much better advertising systems, much better profit recommendations, and 
just a much better ability to process the giant databases that 
many companies have to make accurate predictions from them. 
So in this course, a lot of the techniques we'll go over will apply 
to both structured data and to unstructured data. 
For the purposes of explaining the algorithms, 
we will draw a little bit more on examples that use unstructured data. 
But as you think through applications of neural networks within your own team I 
hope you find both uses for them in both structured and unstructured data.
Play video starting at :8:2 and follow transcript8:02
So neural networks have transformed supervised learning and 
are creating tremendous economic value. 
It turns out though, that the basic technical ideas behind neural networks 
have mostly been around, sometimes for many decades. 
So why is it, then, that they're only just now taking off and working so well? 
In the next video, we'll talk about why it's only quite recently 
that neural networks have become this incredibly powerful tool that you can use.

From <https://www.coursera.org/learn/neural-networks-deep-learning/lecture/2c38r/supervised-learning-with-neural-networks> 

If the basic technical ideas behind deep learning behind your networks have 
been around for decades why are they only just now taking off in this video 
let's go over some of the main drivers behind the rise of deep learning because 
I think this will help you to spot the best opportunities within your own 
organization to apply these to over the last few years a lot of people have 
asked me "Andrew why is deep learning suddenly working so well?" and when I 
am asked that question this is usually the picture I draw for them. Let's say we 
plot a figure where on the horizontal axis we plot the amount of data we have 
for a task and let's say on the vertical axis we plot the performance on involved 
learning algorithms such as the accuracy of our spam classifier or our ad click 
predictor or the accuracy of our neural net for figuring out the position of 
other cars for our self-driving car. It turns out if you plot the performance of 
a traditional learning algorithm like support vector machine or logistic 
regression as a function of the amount of data you have you might get a curve 
that looks like this where the performance improves for a while as you 
add more data but after a while the performance you know pretty much 
plateaus right suppose your horizontal lines enjoy that very well you know was 
it they didn't know what to do with huge amounts of data and what happened in our 
society over the last 10 years maybe is that for a lot of problems we went from 
having a relatively small amount of data to having you know often a fairly large 
amount of data and all of this was thanks to the digitization of a society 
where so much human activity is now in the digital realm we spend so much time 
on the computers on websites on mobile apps and activities on digital devices 
creates data and thanks to the rise of inexpensive cameras built into our cell 
phones, accelerometers, all sorts of sensors in the Internet of Things. We 
also just have been collecting one more and more data. So over the last 20 years 
for a lot of applications we just accumulate a lot more data more than traditional 
learning algorithms were able to effectively take advantage of and what 
new network lead turns out that if you train a small neural net then this 
performance maybe looks like that. 
If you train a somewhat larger Internet that's called as a medium-sized internet. 
To fall in something a little bit between and if you train a very large neural net 
then it's the form and often just keeps getting better and better. So, a couple 
observations. One is if you want to hit this very high level of performance then 
you need two things first: often you need to be able to train a big enough neural 
network in order to take advantage of the huge amount of data and second you 
need to be out here, on the x axis you do need a lot of data so we often say that 
scale has been driving deep learning progress and by scale I mean both the 
size of the neural network, meaning just a new network, a lot of hidden units, a 
lot of parameters, a lot of connections, as well as the scale of the data. In fact, 
today one of the most reliable ways to get better performance in a neural 
network is often to either train a bigger network or throw more data at it 
and that only works up to a point because eventually you run out of data 
or eventually then your network is so big that it takes too long to train. But, 
just improving scale has actually taken us a long way in the world of learning 
in order to make this diagram a bit more technically precise and just add a few 
more things I wrote the amount of data on the x-axis. Technically, this is amount 
of labeled data where by label data I mean training examples we have both 
the input X and the label Y I went to introduce a little bit of notation that 
we'll use later in this course. We're going to use lowercase alphabet m to 
denote the size of my training sets or the number of training examples 
this lowercase M so that's the horizontal axis. A couple other details, to 
this figure, in this regime of smaller training sets the relative ordering of the algorithms 
is actually not very well defined so if you don't have a lot of training data it is 
often up to your skill at hand engineering features that determines the 
foreman so it's quite possible that if someone training an SVM is more 
motivated to hand engineer features and someone training even larger neural nets, 
that may be in this small training set regime, the SEM could do better 
so you know in this region to the left of the figure the relative ordering 
between gene algorithms is not that well defined and performance depends much 
more on your skill at engine features and other mobile details of the 
algorithms and there's only in this some big data regime. Very large training sets, 
very large M regime in the right that we more consistently see large neural nets 
dominating the other approaches. And so if any of your friends ask you why are 
neural nets taking off I would encourage you to draw this picture for 
them as well. So I will say that in the early days in their modern rise of deep 
learning, it was scaled data and scale of computation just our ability to train 
very large neural networks either on a CPU or GPU that enabled us 
to make a lot of progress. But increasingly, especially in the last 
several years, we've seen tremendous algorithmic innovation as well so I also 
don't want to understate that. Interestingly, many of the algorithmic 
innovations have been about trying to make neural networks run much faster so 
as a concrete example one of the huge breakthroughs in neural networks has been 
switching from a sigmoid function, which looks like this, to a railer function, 
which we talked about briefly in an early video, that looks like this. If you 
don't understand the details of one about the state don't worry about it but 
it turns out that one of the problems of using sigmoid functions and machine 
learning is that there are these regions here where the slope of the function 
where the gradient is nearly zero and so learning becomes really slow, because when you 
implement gradient descent and gradient is zero the parameters just change very 
slowly. And so, learning is very slow whereas by changing the what's called 
the activation function the neural network to use this function called the 
value function of the rectified linear unit, or RELU, the gradient is equal to 
1 for all positive values of input. right. And so, the gradient is much less 
likely to gradually shrink to 0 and the gradient here. the slope of this line is 0 on the left but it turns out 
that just by switching to the sigmoid function to the RELU function has made an algorithm called gradient 
descent work much faster and so this is an example of maybe relatively simple algorithmic innovation. 
But ultimately, the impact of this algorithmic innovation was it really helped computation. so there 
are actually quite a lot of examples like this of where we change the algorithm 
because it allows that code to run much faster and this allows us to train bigger neural networks, 
or to do so the reason will decline even when we have a large network roam all the data. 
The other reason that fast computation is important is that it turns out the process of training 
your network is very intuitive. 
Often, you have an idea for a neural network architecture and so you implement your idea and code. 
Implementing your idea then lets you run an experiment which tells you how well 
your neural network does and then by looking at it you go back to change the details of your new network
and then you go around this circle over and over and when your new network takes a long time 
to train it just takes a long time to go around this cycle and there's a huge difference in your productivity. 
Building effective neural networks when you can have an idea and try it and see the work 
in ten minutes, or maybe at most a day, versus if you've to train your neural 
network for a month, which sometimes does happen, because you get a result back you know 
in ten minutes or maybe in a day you should just try a lot more ideas and be 
much more likely to discover in your network. And it works well for your 
application and so faster computation has really helped in terms of speeding 
up the rate at which you can get an experimental result back and this has 
really helped both practitioners of neural networks as well as researchers 
working and deep learning iterate much faster and improve your ideas much 
faster. So, all this has also been a huge boon to the entire deep learning research community 
which has been incredible with just inventing new algorithms and making nonstop progress on that front. 
So these are some of the forces powering the rise of deep learning but the good news is that these 
forces are still working powerfully to make deep learning even better. Take data... 
society is still throwing out more digital data. Or take computation, with the rise of specialized hardware 
like GPUs and faster networking many types of hardware, I'm actually quite confident 
that our ability to do very large neural networks from a computation point 
of view will keep on getting better and take algorithms relative to learning 
research communities are continuously phenomenal at elevating on the 
algorithms front. So because of this, I think that we can be optimistic answer 
is that deep learning will keep on getting better for many years to come. 
So with that, let's go on to the last video of the section where we'll talk a little 
bit more about what you learn from this course.

From <https://www.coursera.org/learn/neural-networks-deep-learning/lecture/praGm/why-is-deep-learning-taking-off> 

So you're just about to reach the end of 
the first week of material on the first course in this specialization. 
Let me give you a quick sense of what you'll learn in the next few weeks as well. 
As I said in the first video, 
this specialization comprises five courses. 
And right now, we're in the first of 
these five courses, which teaches you the most important foundations, 
really the most important building blocks of deep learning. 
So by the end of this first course, 
you will know how to build and get to work on a deep neural network. 
So here the details of what is in this first course. 
This course is four weeks of material. 
And you're just coming up to the end of 
the first week when you saw an introduction to deep learning. 
At the end of each week, 
there are also be 10 multiple-choice questions that 
you can use to double check your understanding of the material. 
So when you're done watching this video, 
I hope you're going to take a look at those questions. 
In the second week, you will then learn about the Basics of Neural Network Programming. 
You'll learn the structure of what we 
call the forward propagation and the back propagation 
steps of the algorithm and how to implement neural networks efficiently. 
Starting from the second week, 
you also get to do a programming exercise 
that lets you practice the material you've just learned, 
implement the algorithms yourself and see it work for yourself. 
I find it really satisfying when I learn about algorithm and I 
get it coded up and I see it worked for myself. 
So I hope you enjoy that too. 
Having learned the framework for neural network programming in the third week, 
you will code up a single hidden layer neural network. All right. 
So you will learn about all the key concepts needed 
to implement and get to work in neural network. 
And then finally in week four, 
you will build a deep neural network and neural network with 
many layers and see it work for yourself. 
So, congratulations on finishing the videos up to this one. 
I hope that you now have a good high-level sense of what's happening in deep learning. 
And perhaps some of you are also excited to 
have some ideas of where you might want to apply deep learning yourself. 
So, I hope that after this video, 
you go on to take a look at the 10 multiple choice questions that follow this video 
on the course website and just use 
the 10 multiple choice questions to check your understanding. 
And don't review, you don't get all the answers right the first time, 
you can try again and again until you get them all right. 
I found them useful to make sure that I'm understanding all the concepts, 
I hope you're that way too. 
So with that, congrats again for getting up to 
here and I look forward to seeing you in the week two videos.

From <https://www.coursera.org/learn/neural-networks-deep-learning/lecture/6A3es/about-this-course> 


As part of this course by deeplearning.ai, I 
hope to not just teach you the technical ideas in deep learning, but 
also introduce you to some of the people, some of the heroes in deep learning. 
The people that invented so 
many of these ideas that you learn about in this course or in this specialization. 
In these videos, I hope to also ask these leaders of deep learning 
to give you career advice for how you can break into deep learning, for 
how you can do research or find a job in deep learning. 
As the first of this interview series, 
I am delighted to present to you an interview with Geoffrey Hinton.
Play video starting at ::38 and follow transcript0:38
Welcome Geoff, and thank you for doing this interview with deeplearning.ai. 
Thank you for inviting me. 
I think that at this point you more than anyone else on this planet has 
invented so many of the ideas behind deep learning. 
And a lot of people have been calling you the godfather of deep learning. 
Although it wasn't until we were chatting a few minutes ago, until I realized 
you think I'm the first one to call you that, which I'm quite happy to have done.
Play video starting at :1:6 and follow transcript1:06
But what I want to ask is, many people know you as a legend, 
I want to ask about your personal story behind the legend. 
So how did you get involved in, going way back, how did you get involved in AI and 
machine learning and neural networks?
Play video starting at :1:22 and follow transcript1:22
So when I was at high school, I had a classmate who was always 
better than me at everything, he was a brilliant mathematician. 
And he came into school one day and said, did you know the brain uses holograms?
Play video starting at :1:38 and follow transcript1:38
And I guess that was about 1966, and I said, sort of what's a hologram? 
And he explained that in a hologram you can chop off half of it, and 
you still get the whole picture. 
And that memories in the brain might be distributed over the whole brain. 
And so I guess he'd read about Lashley's experiments, 
where you chop off bits of a rat's brain and 
discover that it's very hard to find one bit where it stores one particular memory.
Play video starting at :2:4 and follow transcript2:04
So that's what first got me interested in how does the brain store memories.
Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10
And then when I went to university, 
I started off studying physiology and physics.
Play video starting at :2:16 and follow transcript2:16
I think when I was at Cambridge, 
I was the only undergraduate doing physiology and physics.
Play video starting at :2:21 and follow transcript2:21
And then I gave up on that and 
tried to do philosophy, because I thought that might give me more insight. 
But that seemed to me actually 
lacking in ways of distinguishing when they said something false. 
And so then I switched to psychology.
Play video starting at :2:41 and follow transcript2:41
And in psychology they had very, very simple theories, and it seemed to me 
it was sort of hopelessly inadequate to explaining what the brain was doing. 
So then I took some time off and became a carpenter. 
And then I decided that I'd try AI, and went of to Edinburgh, 
to study AI with Langer Higgins. 
And he had done very nice work on neural networks, and 
he'd just given up on neural networks, and been very impressed by Winograd's thesis. 
So when I arrived he thought I was kind of doing this old fashioned stuff, and 
I ought to start on symbolic AI. 
And we had a lot of fights about that, but I just kept on doing what I believed in. 
And then what? 
I eventually got a PhD in AI, and then I couldn't get a job in Britain. 
But I saw this very nice advertisement for 
Sloan Fellowships in California, and I managed to get one of those. 
And I went to California, and everything was different there. 
So in Britain, neural nets was regarded as kind of silly, 
and in California, Don Norman and 
David Rumelhart were very open to ideas about neural nets. 
It was the first time I'd been somewhere where thinking about how the brain works, 
and thinking about how that might relate to psychology, 
was seen as a very positive thing. 
And it was a lot of fun there, 
in particular collaborating with David Rumelhart was great. 
I see, great. So this was when you were at UCSD, and 
you and Rumelhart around what, 1982, 
wound up writing the seminal backprop paper, right? 
Actually, it was more complicated than that. 
What happened? 
In, I think, early 1982, 
David Rumelhart and me, and Ron Williams, 
between us developed the backprop algorithm, 
it was mainly David Rumelhart's idea. 
We discovered later that many other people had invented it. 
David Parker had invented, it probably after us, but before we'd published. 
Paul Werbos had published it already quite a few years earlier, but 
nobody paid it much attention. 
And there were other people who'd developed very similar algorithms, 
it's not clear what's meant by backprop. 
But using the chain rule to get derivatives was not a novel idea. 
I see, why do you think it was your paper that helped so 
much the community latch on to backprop? 
It feels like your paper marked an infection in the acceptance of this 
algorithm, whoever accepted it. 
So we managed to get a paper into Nature in 1986. 
And I did quite a lot of political work to get the paper accepted. 
I figured out that one of the referees was probably going to be Stuart Sutherland, 
who was a well known psychologist in Britain. 
And I went to talk to him for a long time, and 
explained to him exactly what was going on. 
And he was very impressed by the fact 
that we showed that backprop could learn representations for words. 
And you could look at those representations, which are little vectors, 
and you could understand the meaning of the individual features. 
So we actually trained it on little triples of words about family trees, 
like Mary has mother Victoria. 
And you'd give it the first two words, and it would have to predict the last word. 
And after you trained it, 
you could see all sorts of features in the representations of the individual words. 
Like the nationality of the person there, 
what generation they were, which branch of the family tree they were in, and so on. 
That was what made Stuart Sutherland really impressed with it, and 
I think that's why the paper got accepted. 
Very early word embeddings, and you're already seeing learned 
features of semantic meanings emerge from the training algorithm. 
Yes, so from a psychologist's point of view, what was interesting was it unified 
two completely different strands of ideas about what knowledge was like. 
So there was the old psychologist's view that a concept is just a big 
bundle of features, and there's lots of evidence for that. 
And then there was the AI view of the time, which is a formal structurist view. 
Which was that a concept is how it relates to other concepts. 
And to capture a concept, you'd have to do something like a graph structure or 
maybe a semantic net. 
And what this back propagation example showed was, you could give it 
the information that would go into a graph structure, or in this case a family tree.
Play video starting at :7:22 and follow transcript7:22
And it could convert that information into features in such a way that it could then 
use the features to derive new consistent information, ie generalize. 
But the crucial thing was this to and fro between the graphical representation or 
the tree structured representation of the family tree, and 
a representation of the people as big feature vectors. 
And in fact that from the graph-like representation you could get feature 
vectors. 
And from the feature vectors, you could get more of the graph-like representation. 
So this is 1986? 
In the early 90s, Bengio showed that you can actually take real data, 
you could take English text, and apply the same techniques there, and 
get embeddings for real words from English text, and that impressed people a lot. 
I guess recently we've been talking a lot about how fast computers like GPUs and 
supercomputers that's driving deep learning. 
I didn't realize that back between 1986 and the early 90's, it sounds like between 
you and Benjio there was already the beginnings of this trend.
Play video starting at :8:30 and follow transcript8:30
Yes, it was a huge advance. 
In 1986, I was using a list machine which was less than a tenth of a mega flop. 
And by about 1993 or thereabouts, people were seeing ten mega flops. 
I see. So there was a factor of 100, 
and that's the point at which is was easy to use, 
because computers were just getting faster. 
Over the past several decades, you've invented so 
many pieces of neural networks and deep learning. 
I'm actually curious, of all of the things you've invented, 
which of the ones you're still most excited about today?
Play video starting at :9:6 and follow transcript9:06
So I think the most beautiful one is the work I do with 
Terry Sejnowski on Boltzmann machines. 
So we discovered there was this really, 
really simple learning algorithm that applied to great big 
density connected nets where you could only see a few of the nodes. 
So it would learn hidden representations and it was a very simple algorithm. 
And it looked like the kind of thing you should be able to get in a brain because 
each synapse only needed to know about the behavior of the two 
neurons it was directly connected to.
Play video starting at :9:37 and follow transcript9:37
And the information that was propagated was the same. 
There were two different phases, which we called wake and sleep. 
But in the two different phases, 
you're propagating information in just the same way. 
Where as in something like back propagation, there's a forward pass and 
a backward pass, and they work differently. 
They're sending different kinds of signals.
Play video starting at :9:58 and follow transcript9:58
So I think that's the most beautiful thing. 
And for many years it looked just like a curiosity, 
because it looked like it was much too slow.
Play video starting at :10:6 and follow transcript10:06
But then later on, I got rid of a little bit of the beauty, and it started letting 
me settle down and just use one iteration, in a somewhat simpler net. 
And that gave restricted Boltzmann machines, 
which actually worked effectively in practice. 
So in the Netflix competition, for example, 
restricted Boltzmann machines were one of the ingredients of the winning entry. 
And in fact, a lot of the recent resurgence of neural net and 
deep learning, starting about 2007, was the restricted Boltzmann machine, 
and derestricted Boltzmann machine work that you and your lab did.
Play video starting at :10:38 and follow transcript10:38
Yes so that's another of the pieces of work I'm very happy with, 
the idea of that you could train your restricted Boltzmann machine, which just 
had one layer of hidden features and you could learn one layer of feature. 
And then you could treat those features as data and do it again, and 
then you could treat the new features you learned as data and do it again, 
as many times as you liked. 
So that was nice, it worked in practice. 
And then UY Tay realized that the whole thing could be treated as a single model, 
but it was a weird kind of model. 
It was a model where at the top you had a restricted Boltzmann machine, but 
below that you had a Sigmoid belief net which was something that 
invented many years early. 
So it was a directed model and 
what we'd managed to come up with by training these restricted Boltzmann 
machines was an efficient way of doing inferences in Sigmoid belief nets.
Play video starting at :11:33 and follow transcript11:33
So, around that time, 
there were people doing neural nets, who would use densely connected nets, but 
didn't have any good ways of doing probabilistic imprints in them. 
And you had people doing graphical models, unlike my children, 
who could do inference properly, but only in sparsely connected nets. 
And what we managed to show was the way of learning these deep 
belief nets so that there's an approximate form of inference that's very fast, 
it's just hands in a single forward pass and that was a very beautiful result. 
And you could guarantee that each time you learn that extra layer of features
Play video starting at :12:16 and follow transcript12:16
there was a band, each time you learned a new layer, you got a new band, and 
the new band was always better than the old band. 
The variational bands, showing as you add layers. 
Yes, I remember that video. 
So that was the second thing that I was really excited about. 
And I guess the third thing was the work I did with on variational methods. 
It turns out people in statistics had done similar work earlier, 
but we didn't know about that.
Play video starting at :12:44 and follow transcript12:44
So we managed to make 
EN work a whole lot better by showing you didn't need to do a perfect E step. 
You could do an approximate E step. 
And EN was a big algorithm in statistics. 
And we'd showed a big generalization of it. 
And in particular, in 1993, I guess, with Van Camp. 
I did a paper, with I think, the first variational Bayes paper, 
where we showed that you could actually do a version of Bayesian learning 
that was far more tractable, by approximating the true posterior with a. 
And you could do that in neural net. 
And I was very excited by that. 
I see. Wow, right. 
Yep, I think I remember all of these papers. 
You and Hinton, approximate Paper, spent many hours reading over that. 
And I think some of the algorithms you use today, or 
some of the algorithms that lots of people use almost every day, are what, 
things like dropouts, or I guess ReLU activations came from your group? 
Yes and no. 
So other people have thought about rectified linear units. 
And we actually did some work with restricted Boltzmann machines showing 
that a ReLU was almost exactly equivalent to a whole stack of logistic units. 
And that's one of the things that helped ReLUs catch on. 
I was really curious about that. 
The value paper had a lot of math showing that this function 
can be approximated with this really complicated formula. 
Did you do that math so your paper would get accepted into an academic conference, 
or did all that math really influence the development of max of 0 and x?
Play video starting at :14:26 and follow transcript14:26
That was one of the cases where actually the math was important 
to the development of the idea. 
So I knew about rectified linear units, obviously, and 
I knew about logistic units. 
And because of the work on Boltzmann machines, 
all of the basic work was done using logistic units. 
And so the question was, 
could the learning algorithm work in something with rectified linear units? 
And by showing the rectified linear units were almost exactly equivalent to a stack 
of logistic units, we showed that all the math would go through. 
I see. 
And it provided the inspiration for today, tons of people use ReLU and 
it just works without- Yeah. 
Without necessarily needing to understand the same motivation.
Play video starting at :15:13 and follow transcript15:13
Yeah, one thing I noticed later when I went to Google. 
I guess in 2014, I gave a talk at Google about using ReLUs and 
initializing with the identity matrix. 
because the nice thing about ReLUs is that if you keep replicating the hidden 
layers and you initialize with the identity, 
it just copies the pattern in the layer below.
Play video starting at :15:36 and follow transcript15:36
And so I was showing that you could train networks with 300 hidden layers and 
you could train them really efficiently if you initialize with their identity. 
But I didn't pursue that any further and I really regret not pursuing that. 
We published one paper with showing you could initialize an active 
showing you could initialize recurringness like that. 
But I should have pursued it further because Later on these residual 
networks is really that kind of thing. 
Over the years I've heard you talk a lot about the brain. 
I've heard you talk about relationship being backprop and the brain. 
What are your current thoughts on that? 
I'm actually working on a paper on that right now.
Play video starting at :16:18 and follow transcript16:18
I guess my main thought is this. 
If it turns out the back prop is a really good algorithm for doing learning.
Play video starting at :16:26 and follow transcript16:26
Then for sure evolution could've figured out how to implement it.
Play video starting at :16:32 and follow transcript16:32
I mean you have cells that could turn into either eyeballs or teeth. 
Now, if cells can do that, they can for sure implement backpropagation and 
presumably this huge selective pressure for it. 
So I think the neuroscientist idea that it doesn't look plausible is just silly. 
There may be some subtle implementation of it. 
And I think the brain probably has something that may not be exactly be 
backpropagation, but it's quite close to it. 
And over the years, I've come up with a number of ideas about how this might work. 
So in 1987, working with Jay McClelland, 
I came up with the recirculation algorithm, 
where the idea is you send information round a loop.
Play video starting at :17:17 and follow transcript17:17
And you try to make it so 
that things don't change as information goes around this loop. 
So the simplest version would be you have input units and hidden units, and 
you send information from the input to the hidden and then back to the input, and 
then back to the hidden and then back to the input and so on. 
And what you want, you want to train an autoencoder, 
but you want to train it without having to do backpropagation. 
So you just train it to try and get rid of all variation in the activities. 
So the idea is that the learning rule for 
synapse is change the weighting proportion to the presynaptic input and 
in proportion to the rate of change at the post synaptic input. 
But in recirculation, you're trying to make the post synaptic input, 
you're trying to make the old one be good and the new one be bad, so 
you're changing in that direction.
Play video starting at :18:11 and follow transcript18:11
We invented this algorithm before neuroscientists come up with 
spike-timing-dependent plasticity. 
Spike-timing-dependent plasticity is actually the same algorithm but the other 
way round, where the new thing is good and the old thing is bad in the learning rule. 
So you're changing the weighting proportions to the preset outlook activity 
times the new person outlook activity minus the old one.
Play video starting at :18:37 and follow transcript18:37
Later on I realized in 2007, that if you took a stack of 
Restricted Boltzmann machines and you trained it up. 
After it was trained, you then had exactly the right conditions for 
implementing backpropagation by just trying to reconstruct. 
If you looked at the reconstruction era, that reconstruction era would 
actually tell you the derivative of the discriminative performance. 
And at the first deep learning workshop at in 2007, I gave a talk about that. 
That was almost completely ignored. 
Later on, Joshua Benjo, took up the idea and 
that's actually done quite a lot of more work on that. 
And I've been doing more work on it myself. 
And I think this idea that if you have a stack of autoencoders, then you can 
get derivatives by sending activity backwards and locate reconstructionaires, 
is a really interesting idea and may well be how the brain does it. 
One other topic that I know you follow about and that I hear you're still 
working on is how to deal with multiple time skills in deep learning? 
So, can you share your thoughts on that? 
Yes, so actually, that goes back to my first years of graduate student. 
The first talk I ever gave was about using what I called fast weights. 
So weights that adapt rapidly, but decay rapidly. 
And therefore can hold short term memory. 
And I showed in a very simple system in 1973 that you could do 
true recursion with those weights. 
And what I mean by true recursion is that the neurons that is used 
in representing things get re-used for representing things in the recursive core.
Play video starting at :20:30 and follow transcript20:30
And the weights that is used for 
actually knowledge get re-used in the recursive core. 
And so that leads the question of when you pop out your recursive core, 
how do you remember what it was you were in the middle of doing? 
Where's that memory? 
because you used the neurons for the recursive core.
Play video starting at :20:46 and follow transcript20:46
And the answer is you can put that memory into fast weights, and 
you can recover the activities neurons from those fast weights. 
And more recently working with Jimmy Ba, 
we actually got a paper in it by using fast weights for recursion like that. 
I see. 
So that was quite a big gap. 
The first model was unpublished in 1973 and 
then Jimmy Ba's model was in 2015, I think, or 2016. 
So it's about 40 years later. 
And, I guess, one other idea of Quite a few years now, 
over five years, I think is capsules, where are you with that? 
Okay, so I'm back to the state I'm used to being in. 
Which is I have this idea I really believe in and nobody else believes it. 
And I submit papers about it and they would get rejected. 
But I really believe in this idea and I'm just going to keep pushing it. 
So it hinges on, there's a couple of key ideas. 
One is about how you represent multi dimensional entities, and you 
can represent multi-dimensional entities by just a little backdoor activities. 
As long as you know there's any one of them. 
So the idea is in each region of the image, you'll assume there's at most, 
one of the particular kind of feature.
Play video starting at :22:15 and follow transcript22:15
And then you'll use a bunch of neurons, and 
their activities will represent the different aspects to that feature,
Play video starting at :22:24 and follow transcript22:24
like within that region exactly what are its x and y coordinates? 
What orientation is it at? 
How fast is it moving? 
What color is it? 
How bright is it? 
And stuff like that. 
So you can use a whole bunch of neurons to represent different dimensions of 
the same thing. 
Provided there's only one of them.
Play video starting at :22:40 and follow transcript22:40
That's a very different way of doing representation 
from what we're normally used to in neural nets. 
Normally in neural nets, we just have a great big layer, 
and all the units go off and do whatever they do. 
But you don't think of bundling them up into little groups that represent 
different coordinates of the same thing.
Play video starting at :22:58 and follow transcript22:58
So I think we should beat this extra structure. 
And then the other idea that goes with that. 
So this means in the trut 367 00:23:09,280 --&gt; 00:23:11,270 Yes. To different subsets.
Play video starting at :23:11 and follow transcript23:11
Yes. To represent, right, rather than- 
I call each of those subsets a capsule. 
I see. 
And the idea is a capsule is able to represent an instance of a feature, but 
only one. 
And it represents all the different properties of that feature. 
It's a feature that has a lot of properties as opposed to 
a normal neuron and normal neural nets, which has just one scale of property. 
Yeah, I see yep. 
And then what you can do if you've got that, is you can do something that normal 
neural nets are very bad at, which is you can do what I call routine by agreement. 
So let's suppose you want to do segmentation and 
you have something that might be a mouth and something else that might be a nose.
Play video starting at :23:57 and follow transcript23:57
And you want to know if you should put them together to make one thing. 
So the idea should have a capsule for 
a mouth that has the parameters of the mouth. 
And you have a capsule for a nose that has the parameters of the nose. 
And then to decipher whether to put them together or 
not, you get each of them to vote for what the parameters should be for a face.
Play video starting at :24:19 and follow transcript24:19
Now if the mouth and the nose are in the right spacial relationship, 
they will agree. 
So when you get two captures at one level voting for the same set of parameters at 
the next level up, you can assume they're probably right, 
because agreement in a high dimensional space is very unlikely.
Play video starting at :24:36 and follow transcript24:36
And that's a very different way of doing filtering, 
than what we normally use in neural nets. 
So I think this routing by agreement is going to be crucial for 
getting neural nets to generalize much better from limited data. 
I think it'd be very good at getting the changes in viewpoint, 
very good at doing segmentation. 
And I'm hoping it will be much more statistically efficient than what we 
currently do in neural nets. 
Which is, if you want to deal with changes in viewpoint, 
you just give it a whole bunch of changes in view point and training on them all. 
I see, right, so rather than FIFO learning, supervised learning, 
you can learn this in some different way.
Play video starting at :25:20 and follow transcript25:20
Well, I still plan to do it with supervised learning, but 
the mechanics of the forward paths are very different. 
It's not a pure forward path in the sense that there's little bits of iteration 
going on, where you think you found a mouth and you think you found a nose. 
And use a little bit of iteration to decide 
whether they should really go together to make a face. 
And you can do back props from that iteration. 
So you can try and do it a little discriminatively, 
and we're working on that now at my group in Toronto. 
So I now have a little Google team in Toronto, part of the Brain team. 
That's what I'm excited about right now. 
I see, great, yeah. 
Look forward to that paper when that comes out. 
Yeah, if it comes out [LAUGH]. 
You worked in deep learning for several decades. 
I'm actually really curious, how has your thinking, 
your understanding of AI changed over these years?
Play video starting at :26:20 and follow transcript26:20
So I guess a lot of my intellectual history has been around back propagation, 
and how to use back propagation, how to make use of its power. 
So to begin with, in the mid 80s, we were using it for 
discriminative learning and it was working well. 
I then decided, by the early 90s, 
that actually most human learning was going to be unsupervised learning. 
And I got much more interested in unsupervised learning, and 
that's when I worked on things like the Wegstein algorithm. 
And your comments at that time really influenced my thinking as well. 
So when I was leading Google Brain, our first project spent a lot of 
work in unsupervised learning because of your influence. 
Right, and I may have misled you. 
Because in the long run, 
I think unsupervised learning is going to be absolutely crucial.
Play video starting at :27:15 and follow transcript27:15
But you have to sort of face reality. 
And what's worked over the last ten years or so is supervised learning. 
Discriminative training, where you have labels, or 
you're trying to predict the next thing in the series, so that acts as the label. 
And that's worked incredibly well.
Play video starting at :27:37 and follow transcript27:37
I still believe that unsupervised learning is going to be crucial, and things will 
work incredibly much better than they do now when we get that working properly, but 
we haven't yet.
Play video starting at :27:49 and follow transcript27:49
Yeah, I think many of the senior people in deep learning, 
including myself, remain very excited about it. 
It's just none of us really have almost any idea how to do it yet. 
Maybe you do, I don't feel like I do. 
Variational altering code is where you use the reparameterization tricks. 
Seemed to me like a really nice idea. 
And generative adversarial nets also seemed to me to be a really nice idea. 
I think generative adversarial nets are one of 
the sort of biggest ideas in deep learning that's really new. 
I'm hoping I can make capsules that successful, but 
right now generative adversarial nets, I think, have been a big breakthrough. 
What happened to sparsity and slow features, 
which were two of the other principles for building unsupervised models?
Play video starting at :28:41 and follow transcript28:41
I was never as big on sparsity as you were, buddy. 
But slow features, I think, is a mistake. 
You shouldn't say slow. 
The basic idea is right, but you shouldn't go for features that don't change, 
you should go for features that change in predictable ways.
Play video starting at :29:1 and follow transcript29:01
So here's a sort of basic principle about how you model anything.
Play video starting at :29:8 and follow transcript29:08
You take your measurements, and you're applying nonlinear 
transformations to your measurements until you get to 
a representation as a state vector in which the action is linear. 
So you don't just pretend it's linear like you do with common filters. 
But you actually find a transformation from the observables to 
the underlying variables where linear operations, 
like matrix multipliers on the underlying variables, will do the work. 
So for example, if you want to change viewpoints. 
If you want to produce the image from another viewpoint, 
what you should do is go from the pixels to coordinates.
Play video starting at :29:47 and follow transcript29:47
And once you got to the coordinate representation, 
which is a kind of thing I'm hoping captures will find. 
You can then do a matrix multiplier to change viewpoint, and 
then you can map it back to pixels. 
Right, that's why you did all that. 
I think that's a very, very general principle. 
That's why you did all that work on face synthesis, right? 
Where you take a face and compress it to very low dimensional vector, and so 
you can fiddle with that and get back other faces. 
I had a student who worked on that, I didn't do much work on that myself.
Play video starting at :30:17 and follow transcript30:17
Now I'm sure you still get asked all the time, 
if someone wants to break into deep learning, what should they do? 
So what advice would you have? 
I'm sure you've given a lot of advice to people in one on one settings, but for 
the global audience of people watching this video. 
What advice would you have for them to get into deep learning? 
Okay, so my advice is sort of read the literature, but don't read too much of it. 
So this is advice I got from my advisor, which is very unlike what most people say. 
Most people say you should spend several years reading the literature and 
then you should start working on your own ideas. 
And that may be true for some researchers, but for creative researchers I think 
what you want to do is read a little bit of the literature. 
And notice something that you think everybody is doing wrong, 
I'm contrary in that sense. 
You look at it and it just doesn't feel right. 
And then figure out how to do it right.
Play video starting at :31:16 and follow transcript31:16
And then when people tell you, that's no good, just keep at it. 
And I have a very good principle for helping people keep at it, 
which is either your intuitions are good or they're not. 
If your intuitions are good, you should follow them and 
you'll eventually be successful. 
If your intuitions are not good, it doesn't matter what you do. 
I see [LAUGH]. 
Inspiring advice, might as well go for it. 
You might as well trust your intuitions. 
There's no point not trusting them. 
I see, yeah. 
I usually advise people to not just read, but replicate published papers. 
And maybe that puts a natural limiter on how many you could do, 
because replicating results is pretty time consuming.
Play video starting at :32:1 and follow transcript32:01
Yes, it's true that when you're trying to replicate a published 
you discover all over little tricks necessary to make it work. 
The other advice I have is, never stop programming. 
Because if you give a student something to do, if they're a bad student, 
they'll come back and say, it didn't work. 
And the reason it didn't work would be some little decision they made, 
that they didn't realize is crucial. 
And if you give it to a good student, like for example. 
You can give him anything and he'll come back and say, it worked.
Play video starting at :32:32 and follow transcript32:32
I remember doing this once, and I said, but wait a minute. 
Since we last talked, 
I realized it couldn't possibly work for the following reason. 
And said, yeah, I realized that right away, so I assumed you didn't mean that. 
[LAUGH] I see, yeah, that's great, yeah. 
Let's see, any other advice for 
people that want to break into AI and deep learning? 
I think that's basically, read enough so you start developing intuitions. 
And then, trust your intuitions and go for it, 
don't be too worried if everybody else says it's nonsense. 
And I guess there's no way to know if others are right or 
wrong when they say it's nonsense, but you just have to go for it, and then find out. 
Right, but there is one thing, which is, if you think it's a really good idea, 
and other people tell you it's complete nonsense, 
then you know you're really on to something. 
So one example of that is when and I first came up with variational methods.
Play video starting at :33:35 and follow transcript33:35
I sent mail explaining it to a former student of mine called Peter Brown, 
who knew a lot about.
Play video starting at :33:43 and follow transcript33:43
And he showed it to people who worked with him, 
called the brothers, they were twins, I think. 
And he then told me later what they said, and they said, 
either this guy's drunk, or he's just stupid, so 
they really, really thought it was nonsense. 
Now, it could have been partly the way I explained it, 
because I explained it in intuitive terms.
Play video starting at :34:9 and follow transcript34:09
But when you have what you think is a good idea and 
other people think is complete rubbish, that's the sign of a really good idea.
Play video starting at :34:18 and follow transcript34:18
I see, and research topics, 
new grad students should work on capsules and 
maybe unsupervised learning, any other? 
One good piece of advice for new grad students is, 
see if you can find an advisor who has beliefs similar to yours. 
Because if you work on stuff that your advisor feels deeply about, 
you'll get a lot of good advice and time from your advisor. 
If you work on stuff your advisor's not interested in, 
all you'll get is, you get some advice, but it won't be nearly so useful. 
I see, and last one on advice for learners, 
how do you feel about people entering a PhD program? 
Versus joining a top company, or a top research group? 
Yeah, it's complicated, I think right now, what's happening is, 
there aren't enough academics trained in deep learning to educate all the people 
that we need educated in universities. 
There just isn't the faculty bandwidth there, but 
I think that's going to be temporary. 
I think what's happened is, most departments have been very slow to 
understand the kind of revolution that's going on. 
I kind of agree with you, that it's not quite a second industrial revolution, but 
it's something on nearly that scale. 
And there's a huge sea change going on, 
basically because our relationship to computers has changed. 
Instead of programming them, we now show them, and they figure it out. 
That's a completely different way of using computers, and 
computer science departments are built around the idea of programming computers. 
And they don't understand that sort of,
Play video starting at :36:5 and follow transcript36:05
this showing computers is going to be as big as programming computers. 
Except they don't understand that half the people in the department should be people 
who get computers to do things by showing them. 
So my department refuses to acknowledge that it should have lots and 
lots of people doing this. 
They think they got a couple, maybe a few more, but not too many.
Play video starting at :36:31 and follow transcript36:31
And in that situation, 
you have to remind the big companies to do quite a lot of the training. 
So Google is now training people, we call brain residence, 
I suspect the universities will eventually catch up. 
I see, right, in fact, maybe a lot of students have figured this out. 
A lot of top 50 programs, over half of the applicants are actually 
wanting to work on showing, rather than programming. 
Yeah, cool, yeah, in fact, to give credit where it's due, 
whereas a deep learning AI is creating a deep learning specialization. 
As far as I know, their first deep learning MOOC was actually yours taught 
on Coursera, back in 2012, as well.
Play video starting at :37:12 and follow transcript37:12
And somewhat strangely, 
that's when you first published the RMS algorithm, which also is a rough.
Play video starting at :37:20 and follow transcript37:20
Right, yes, well, as you know, that was because you invited me to do the MOOC. 
And then when I was very dubious about doing, you kept pushing me to do it, so 
it was very good that I did, although it was a lot of work. 
Yes, and thank you for doing that, I remember you complaining to me, 
how much work it was. 
And you staying out late at night, but I think many, many learners have 
benefited for your first MOOC, so I'm very grateful to you for it, so. 
That's good, yeah Yeah, over the years, 
I've seen you embroiled in debates about paradigms for AI, and 
whether there's been a paradigm shift for AI. 
What are your, can you share your thoughts on that? 
Yes, happily, so I think that in the early days, back in the 50s, 
people like von Neumann and Turing didn't believe in symbolic AI, 
they were far more inspired by the brain. 
Unfortunately, they both died much too young, and their voice wasn't heard. 
And in the early days of AI, 
people were completely convinced that the representations you need for 
intelligence were symbolic expressions of some kind. 
Sort of cleaned up logic, where you could do non-monotonic things, and not quite 
logic, but something like logic, and that the essence of intelligence was reasoning. 
What's happened now is, there's a completely different view, 
which is that what a thought is, is just a great big vector of neural activity, 
so contrast that with a thought being a symbolic expression. 
And I think the people who thought that thoughts were symbolic expressions just 
made a huge mistake.
Play video starting at :39:1 and follow transcript39:01
What comes in is a string of words, and what comes out is a string of words.
Play video starting at :39:8 and follow transcript39:08
And because of that, strings of words are the obvious way to represent things. 
So they thought what must be in between was a string of words, or 
something like a string of words. 
And I think what's in between is nothing like a string of words. 
I think the idea that thoughts must be in some kind of language is as silly as 
the idea that understanding the layout of a spatial scene 
must be in pixels, pixels come in. 
And if we could, if we had a dot matrix printer attached to us, 
then pixels would come out, but what's in between isn't pixels.
Play video starting at :39:43 and follow transcript39:43
And so I think thoughts are just these great big vectors, and 
that big vectors have causal powers. 
They cause other big vectors, and 
that's utterly unlike the standard AI view that thoughts are symbolic expressions. 
I see, good,
Play video starting at :39:57 and follow transcript39:57
I guess AI is certainly coming round to this new point of view these days. 
Some of it, 
I think a lot of people in AI still think thoughts have to be symbolic expressions. 
Thank you very much for doing this interview. 
It was fascinating to hear how deep learning has evolved over the years, 
as well as how you're still helping drive it into the future, so thank you, Jeff.

From <https://www.coursera.org/learn/neural-networks-deep-learning/lecture/dcm5r/geoffrey-hinton-interview> 




